README.md, before:

# Pygstudio

A template to make games easier like what you see in game engines like Unity and Roblox.

## How to use pygstudio
- To create your own pygstudio project, type in your terminal:
`pygstudio create [NAME]` or `python -m pygstudio create NAME -o DESTINATION`.
This will make a new pygstudio template in your directory / destination.
- To release your own game, type in your terminal:
`pygstudio release -f PROJECTPATH -o RELEASEPATH`
- To configure pygstudio, type in your terminal:
`pygstudio config CONFIGS`

## What can you do with pygstudio?
1. Easy configuration - Each file are provided with comments to help you guide in building your game. You can also edit the code if you don't like the code itself.
2. Easy access - Your scripts can access various things like the globals, components and assets by putting these lines of code: `import globals` `from components import componentA` `pygame.image.load("assets/mypicture.png")` _(an example of using assets)._ Example:
``` python
# scripts/npc.py
import pygame, random, globals
from components import characters

for i in range(10):
    npc_character_image = pygame.image.load("assets/smol_npc.png")
    new_npc = components.characters.NPC(npc_character_image, (random.random() * 100, random.random() * 1000))   # NPC(image, position)
    globals.npcs.append(new_npc)
    new_npc.start_being_npc()
```
3. Threaded scripts - Make a script easily by making a file/package inside the `scripts` directory. 

Instead of this monstrosity:
``` python
import threading

def fire_function_every_3_seconds(): ...   # takes 15 lines of code
def handle_physics(): ...   # takes 300 lines of code 
def handle_network(): ...   # takes 258 lines of code

threading.Thread(daemon=True, target=fire_function_every_3_seconds).start()
threading.Thread(daemon=True, target=handle_physics).start()
threading.Thread(daemon=True, target=handle_network).start()
```
You can now put them in their separate files and they will be executed independently.
``` python
# scripts/loop.py
...     # the entire `fire_function_every_3_seconds` code
```
``` python
# scripts/physics.py
...     # the entire `handle_physics` code
```
``` python
# scripts/network.py
...     # the entire `handle_network` code
```

4. Easy game release for your friends to test.
Type in your terminal: `python -m pygstudio release` and it will release your game.
> Note: The default directory will be your current directory `./` and for the release directory would be `./release`.

> To change those paths, specify `-f` for project directory and `-o` for release directory

There are other options you can try like changing the icon of the executable.
Just call `python -m pygstudio release -h` for help

## Template
The file structure of pygstudio:  _(Version 1.1)_
``` 
PROJECT NAME
├── main.py
├── globals.py
├── engine.py
├── script_manager.py
├── save.py
├── assets/
├── scripts/
└── components/
    └── __init__.py
```

## About
Hello, I am only a developer making this project. I am new to github so expect many bugs and stupid decisions in commiting files. 

If you wish to improve this project, you may fork this repository and add me in the credits of your repository. I will still continue improving this project but I cannot guarantee that I can repond to all your issues as I am only a student in a university. Life is hard!

This project is licensed.

Commit message:

add issue section and upd file struct

README.md, after:

# Pygstudio

A template to make games easier like what you see in game engines like Unity and Roblox.

## How to use pygstudio
- To create your own pygstudio project, type in your terminal:
`pygstudio create [NAME]` or `python -m pygstudio create NAME -o DESTINATION`.
This will make a new pygstudio template in your directory / destination.
- To release your own game, type in your terminal:
`pygstudio release -f PROJECTPATH -o RELEASEPATH`
- To configure pygstudio, type in your terminal:
`pygstudio config CONFIGS`

## What can you do with pygstudio?
1. Easy configuration - Each file are provided with comments to help you guide in building your game. You can also edit the code if you don't like the code itself.
2. Easy access - Your scripts can access various things like the globals, components and assets by putting these lines of code: `import globals` `from components import componentA` `pygame.image.load("assets/mypicture.png")` _(an example of using assets)._ Example:
``` python
# scripts/npc.py
import pygame, random, globals
from components import characters

for i in range(10):
    npc_character_image = pygame.image.load("assets/smol_npc.png")
    new_npc = components.characters.NPC(npc_character_image, (random.random() * 100, random.random() * 1000))   # NPC(image, position)
    globals.npcs.append(new_npc)
    new_npc.start_being_npc()
```
3. Threaded scripts - Make a script easily by making a file/package inside the `scripts` directory. 

Instead of this monstrosity:
``` python
import threading

def fire_function_every_3_seconds(): ...   # takes 15 lines of code
def handle_physics(): ...   # takes 300 lines of code 
def handle_network(): ...   # takes 258 lines of code

threading.Thread(daemon=True, target=fire_function_every_3_seconds).start()
threading.Thread(daemon=True, target=handle_physics).start()
threading.Thread(daemon=True, target=handle_network).start()
```
You can now put them in their separate files and they will be executed independently.
``` python
# scripts/loop.py
...     # the entire `fire_function_every_3_seconds` code
```
``` python
# scripts/physics.py
...     # the entire `handle_physics` code
```
``` python
# scripts/network.py
...     # the entire `handle_network` code
```

4. Easy game release for your friends to test.
Type in your terminal: `python -m pygstudio release` and it will release your game.
> Note: The default directory will be your current directory `./` and for the release directory would be `./release`.

> To change those paths, specify `-f` for project directory and `-o` for release directory

There are other options you can try like changing the icon of the executable.
Just call `python -m pygstudio release -h` for help

## Template
The file structure of pygstudio:  _(Version 1.1)_
``` 
PROJECT NAME
├── main.py
├── globals.py
├── engine.py
├── script_manager.py
├── save.py
├── save.pyi
├── assets/
├── scripts/
└── components/
    └── __init__.py
```

## Issues
The issues section of this repository is for putting up issues found by myself so you would see issues started by me. If you found an issue with this project, you may leave an issue in the issue section of this repository.

## About
Hello, I am only a developer making this project. I am new to github so expect many bugs and stupid decisions in commiting files. 

If you wish to improve this project, you may fork this repository and add me in the credits of your repository. I will still continue improving this project but I cannot guarantee that I can repond to all your issues as I am only a student in a university. Life is hard!

This project is licensed.
